## _swag_ and _swagifacts_

_swag_ is the system used by Tunapanda Institute to measure skills. Tunapanda is concerned with two types of _swag_:
* Digital era vocational _swag_ - skills that allow users to create value (and make money)
* Freedom through self-expression _swag_ - skills that allow users to create art, achieve self-actualization, etc

_swag_ is generated by acquiring certain skills and doing certain activities. Touch-typing _swag_ is generated by putting in effort to learning how to type, primarily by practicing on typing software and achieving specified speeds with a high level of accuracy.

But _swag_ can also be generated by consuming _swagifacts_. For example: watching videos, listening to a real person, doing projects or reading articles. More _swag_ can be earned by touch-typing subtitles, notes or other text from _swag_ the ~~player~~ student has already generated. _swag_ can even be generated by helping other users generate _swag_... but that's another story. 

It's important to note that _swagiftacts_ have to be designed before they can be used to generate _swag_. This repository is one place _swagifacts_ are born.

## How _swagifacts_ Are Born

**Step 1: Why?** Every _swagifact_ is born with a purpose. The power of asking "why?" is well-documented. For example, see: "The Power of Why" by Amanda Lang. Good _swagifacts_ are short _swagifacts_. E.g. "The purpose of this _swagifact_ is to help users generate the 'copy a file in the Linux Terminal' _swag_."

**Step 2: What?** A text-based _swagifact_ might be any of the following:
* A script for a teacher to read from a book or e-readers [note: this may sound absurd, but the fastest-growing chain of primary schools in Africa uses this method for all it's classes]
* A subtitle file to be developed into a video or screencast
* An article to be read (or touch-typed)
* Some notes to remind someone who has lost touch with an old piece of _swag_ and needs a reminder

**Step 3: Write it!** Publish it under an open license (such as Creative Commons CC-BY-SA) so that people can copy it, modify it and maybe even earn a living from it.

**Step 4: Improve it** You or someone else can use the _swagifact_ to create audio and video content. Graphics and pictures can be added to activate other learning styles.
